---
title: MB-230 and MB-240 Quick Study
tags:
  - resource
header:
  overlay_image: https://www.randgroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/ins_D365_v1.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.2
  teaser: https://www.randgroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/ins_D365_v1.jpg
---

# Draft

Earlier this year, I took several exams that allowed me to receive the MCSA and MCSE badges for Business Applications (Dynamics). However, these will retire on December 31, 2019 and will no longer be attainable. To replace them, Microsoft released a brand new set of Dynamics certification exams that are role and level based. As a result, I set off to acquire the following badges:

* Microsoft Certified: Dynamics 365 for Customer Service Functional Consultant Associate
* Microsoft Certified: Dynamics 365 for Field Service Functional Consultant Associate

These two certifications are attainable by passing the following exams: MB-200 (Customer Engagement), MB-230 (Customer Service), and MB-240 (Field Service).

In general, the questions pull directly from the Microsoft official documentation, some even word-for-word. Going through the documentation in conjunction with the step-by-step tutorials on Microsoft learn is enough to prepare you. It also helps to spin up a trial instance of D365 to play with as well. 

I've compiled a list of _quick notes_ for many of the topics covered in MB-230 and MB-240, as well as general knowledge about Dynamics for Customer Service and Field Service. Items in bold are highly likely to appear on the exam.

# Customer Service

### Voice of the Customer

* Admin can install directly from D365 via Applications
* Published surveys are stored in Azure (S2S authentication)
* Supports images, survey/section logo, and color theme
* Max published surveys = 200
* Max questions in survey = 250
* Max questions in survey w/ feedback = 40
* Recommended max pages in survey = 25
* Recommended max sections on page in survey = 10
* Max of 50,000 email invites w/ piped data can be sent within 24 hours
* Allows enabling of unsubscribe survey where user can update contact preferences
* Survey feedback can come as either (1) Survey Response - responses stored in survey response tbale, or (2) Feedback - stored in custom entity for the survey
* Survey part types: short/long answer, rating, single/multiple response, ranking, net promoter score, customer effort score, ratings, upload file
* **RESPONSE MAPPING** allows user to map a response to a question to fields in the survey response entity
* **LINKED QUESTION** allows linking of question to another in same/different survey
* Survey must be published to be public
* Distribute survey (1) anonymously, (2) non-anonymously, or (3) through an iframe on another webpage
* Leads can be auto-created when surveys are distributed anonymously via OOTB workflow
* If you delete a survey, all dependent entities are deleted too (e.g. feedback)
* All survey responses must be deleted to delete the survey

# Field Service

